### LORAWAN

The Long Range Wide Area Network (LoRaWAN) is a low-power wireless network protocol. It requires very little power, can only transmit small amounts of data, 292 bit/s to 50 kbit/s and utilises various frequency bands for wireless data transmission. LORAWAN can therefore achieve ranges from 2 km in urban areas to 15 km in rural areas. There are also reports of ranges of up to 40 km and more, although some of the conditions used are unrealistic. The long-wave frequencies that are used have the advantage that they pass through buildings and other infrastructures. If you are sitting in MCI 4 and there is no WLAN reception again, even though you have seen a router in the corridor, it`s because WLAN operates in the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz frequency bands that has some difficulties passing thick walls, while LORAWAN in Europe is at 868 MHz. If you calculate the wavelength using the formula $$ \lambda = \frac{c}{f} $$ with c = speed of light and f = frequency, you get a wavelength of $$ \lambda = 0.125 m $$ for WLAN and $$ \lambda = 0.345 m $$ for LORAWAN. The longer wavelength is better for penetrating obstacles and for range, but you have to sacrifice data volume and transmission rate. This is because LORAWAN should not send more tan one message every 5 minutes to not overload the public frequencies it operates on. And as mentioned with the range, it depends very much on how and where a LORAWAN module is set up. As with MQTT, LORAWAN has a star-shaped structure. This means that you could hypothetically sit down in all your favourite bars in Innsbruck on a Saturday evening with your ESP32 under your arm and measure the temperature of your after-work beer, collect the data in the MCI 4 and make a beer temperature comparison on Monday. 