I would recommend that you create a separate folder in which you can save all programmes. All programmes in the Pymakr Project will also be loaded onto the microcontroller. There will be various sensors and test programmes that you can and should use for the project. You will not always need all of them at the same time and you should only load onto the controller what you actually use. Otherwise it will only become cluttered and you could possibly have problems with pin assignments, inputs and outputs or computing power. While working on the project, you can simply copy the required programmes and libraries and load them into your Pymakr workspace. This should make your work a little easier and better structured.

It is best to always give the programmes self-explanatory names so that you still know what the code does later. If you want to use the programme on the controller, simply copy the code into the main.py programme of the microcontroller, the same for boot.py if you need it. For additional libraries, copy the entire programme into the Pymakr folder and make sure you name it correctly.

Some libraries used in the programmes are underlined when you load them into VSCode. This happens if the libraries cannot be found on your computer. Please do NOT download these libraries! These libraries are specially made for microcontrollers and will not run on your computer. Unfortunately, this makes working a little more difficult as you cannot always recognise where errors occur as the code is interpreted on the controller. Use the console, you might find hints there, some possible problems are already covered here. This is a disadvantage when working with Python or Micropython. In C, the code must be compiled beforehand. In most cases, you will receive error messages and can correct the code before it ends up on the controller. With Python, the code is uploaded as it is and than only interpreted and executed on the device. Keep this in mind in case of complications.